### Table of Contents

- [Setup](#setup)
- [Features](#features)
    - [Clock](#clock)
    - [Time Travel](#time-travel)
    - [Retry](#retry)
- [Production Readiness](#production-readiness)
- [Effect Architecture](#effect-architecture)
    - [Adding Effects](#adding-effects)
    - [Alternative Architectures](#alternative-architectures)
- [Ideas](#Ideas)
    - [Meta Effects](#meta-effects)
    - [Alternative Timelines](#alternative-timelines)
    - [Generic Game](#generic-game)

# Setup
```bash
npm install
npm start
```
# Features
Additional information about some of the features.

## Clock
Challenges of adding a clock to the game:
- Total game time and countdown should run in sync and therefore need to use the same clock:
    - Loose by letting the time run out.
    - Note down the total time.
    - Time travel back to the previous move.
    - Let the time run out again.
    - The game clock should show the same total time on the second loss as on the first loss.
- Future components should also use the same clock, so the clock needs to be high in the component graph. Therefore the clock needs to be updated outside of React (without setState) to make sure React does not re-render all children every time the clock updates (in our case every 10ms).
- setInterval is not an appropriate solution as setInterval only guarantees invoking the callback *not earlier* than the specified milliseconds and might invoke the callback later if the main thread is busy.
- The chosen solution, a self-adjusting interval using `requestAnimationFrame`, has its own challenges e.g. the interval gets paused to save battery when the user opens a different tab. Therefore the code needs to handle the case where the time has ran out while the user was in a different tab and can do so only after the interval resumes.

## Time Travel
How to use:
- Click the 🐾 button to restart the current step.
- Move the slider to go to previous steps (not working as long as there are 0 steps).

## Retry

- Revealing one or more retry cards will save them for future activation.
- A saved retry will activate once the second orange card is revealed. In that case the responsible retry card and the second orange card will receive a highlight indicating that this is the card to retry (especially needed when time travelling back). If the next choice is wrong again and there is another retry card saved, the highlights will move to this 2nd retry card and the 2nd wrong choice.
- Revealing effect cards do not count as second choices, so the user can retry until they find a 2nd orange card.

# Production Readiness
I tried to keep it as simple as possible and therefore did not use any of my usual suspects:
- NextJS
- Fetching library e.g. React Query
- State management library e.g. Redux Toolkit
- npm packages e.g. immer for immutability

Also missing:
- Accessibility
- Responsiveness
- Error logging
- Stricter `tsconfig.json`
- CI/CD
    - Containerisation
    - Unit and e2e tests
    - Security scans
    - Performance checks e.g. Lighthouse CI
- husky for pre-commit hooks (I wanted to experiment with building my own)
- ...

Usually I clean up the git history before opening a PR as well, but maybe you are interested in what I actually did.

Also the user should loose after 1h, because my clock cannot display it 😄

# Effect Architecture

This was the most interesting and challenging part of the project. I am still not 100% happy with my solution and would like to hear which approach you would have taken!

## Adding Effects
Adding effects is as easy as creating a file, implementing an interface and listing it in the effect registry.

I believe this approach could scale well, but if we had 100s of effects it would be nice to have an effect factory function and other util functions such as validators. It would also be interesting to let effects register their own React card components.

## Alternative Architectures

- Storing functions on the effect queue. However this would make the game history non-serialisable
- A dictionary of rounds instead of a single queue. However effects like retry are not specific to a round. This would require two types of effects (round-specific and non-round-specific) with their own data structure e.g. dictionary and regular queue.
```ts
// In round 2 a special timer is revealed that gives you 3x extra time every 10 moves
{
  3: ["timer"]
  13: ["timer"]
  23: ["timer"]
}
```
I am not super happy about the code of my retry effect. I believe it is too complex and that it has too many if statements. This could be a sign that there is actually a problem with my architecture.
- The if statements could be improved by adding states to the effects (e.g. `[{effect: "retry", state: "waiting"}]`, `[{effect: "retry", state: "active", choice1: ... }]` etc.) , but I think there is a better more fundamentally different approach out there.

# Ideas
Some things I would like to add if I could pause time itself.

## Meta Effects
With "meta effects" I mean effects which influence other effects. For example a "Double" effect could double all the effects a user has found, but not used yet or the next 3 effects that the user will find.

## Generic Game
It would have been interesting to build a purely event based app without React first and later add a React adapter. This would allow the game to be connected to anything e.g. Angular, the terminal, an Apple watch etc.

## Alternative Timelines
Alternative timelines like Lichess has on their analysis board are such a great feature. Would be interesting to add them here as well. Have you done something similar before?
