> > Hi Martin, I'm Campbell. As Gordon said, I also looked through the code and played with the game a bit.
> > I've left a few comments, but I had one other questions about the overall implementation that I wanted to ask you:
> > You mentioned in your PR comment that you're not entirely pleased with the effect code, specifically for the retry effect. Is there anything you can point to specifically in the architecture that lead to the complications? Do you feel that there are certain effects that your architecture is better suited to handle?
> > Thank you again for taking the time to work on this, and I look forward to talking to you soon in the final interview!
>
> This is the hardest question to answer and I do not have a good one.
>
> ### Architecture decision that led to the complications
>
> I cannot point to something specifically, but here are some things I do not like:
>
> - A retry effect checking if it is the first retry in the queue
> - A retry effect manipulating the next retry effect in the queue
> - Storing redundant data on a `Move`. Instead of storing the choices of the move which should be retried, the retry effect could derive them from the history of moves itself when needed.
>
> The last point seems to be the most substantial and might fix the first two points.
>
> ### Effects handled by my architecture well
>
> - One-time effects like shuffle
> - Effects which "have their own" property on `Move` e.g. the timer effect manipulating `nextMove.msPerMove`
>
> The retry effect could also be simplified if it had its own dedicated property on `Move`, but I did not like each new effect adding properties to `Move`. I was trying to go for the open/closed principle explained in this [comment](https://github.com/iknow/martin-jaskulla-project/pull/1#discussion_r912362614).
>
> Looking forward to your input!

Another issue might be that I saved the state of the retry effect per card instead of globally:

```ts
// What the app does at the moment:
{
...,
effects: {
    data: {
        [cardId]: {
            choice1: "",
            choice2: ""
        }
    }
}
}
```

```ts
// Saving globally
{
...,
effects: {
    data: {
        retry: {
            choice1: "",
            choice2: ""
        }
    }
}
}
```

I initially went with this design, but I thought it might be useful to see in the JSON, which cardId is responsible for an effect in case you want to highlight it or do something else (for example showing on a timer effect card, how many moves are left).

Instead of deciding between saving state per card or globally, I could have combined both approaches (`move.effects.data.perCard` & `move.effects.data.perEffect`). Another option would have been to just go for the global approach and leave it to the effect to save per card information there if needed, because effects would be allowed to save arbitrary properties in their own namespace. However I did not like two different effects saving per card information using a different approach e.g. if there are a lot of effects and different developers implementing them.
