For reasons I can't explain, Safari (15.5) does not seem to like some of the styles applied here and has very bizarre behaviors. I tried to reduce the case and it looks like a bug.

https://codesandbox.io/s/broken-safari-forked-1n9o4k?file=/index.html

[I filed a bug report with webkit](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=242052). I guess we'll see if they say anything.

With that said, `aspect-ratio` is applied to the cards, from a child selector on the board. I think that is in conflict with setting width and height to `100%`. It's unclear whether the intent was to put aspect ratio on the cards themselves or if the cards were supposed to be wrapped in another container and size to fit that container.

I guess I'd be interested to know:

1.  What the original intention was and if that changed.
2. What your general thoughts are on child selectors (particularly when using CSS-in-JS). Useful? Dangerous? Both?


***

What a great bug 😄 Thanks for opening the bug report!

**1. Original Intention**
The original intention did not change.

The [idea](https://youtu.be/QtZMTRq9Ly4?t=926) is to have two types of components: 1) layout components and 2) fluid components. Layout components are responsible for placing and setting the dimensions of fluid components while the fluid components should not care where on the page they are being displayed, adapt to any scenario and also [not influencing their surroundings](https://mxstbr.com/thoughts/margin/).

That could mean the parent wrapping the card in another container, but also anything else like using aspect-ratio.

**2.1 General thoughts about child and descendant selectors**

Advantages

- Child and descendant selectors make classless CSS component libraries possible, which come in handy when  adding a theme to a website without adding any styles yourself (e.g. a markdown generated website).
- Sometimes child selectors are the only option. For example when using a non-composable 3rd party component like `<Dialog data={data} />`, you have no control over the markup. In order to style a specific `<button>` nested inside the dialog, one has to use a child selector or JavaScript.

Drawbacks

- Child selectors tightly couple your CSS rules to the DOM structure. If the DOM structure changes, the CSS rule has to as well. This might become a maintainability problem in bigger projects.
- Increased specificity. This why e.g. BEM is going for `.grid__item` instead of `.grid > .item`

So child selectors can be useful or dangerous depending on what you want to achieve.

**2.2 Child selectors CSS-in-JS**
The second part of your question alludes to a specific problem with using child selector in CSS-in-JS, which I am unaware of.
