```
middleware: {
  onClick: Middleware;
  onQueue?: Middleware;
};
```

What was the rationale between splitting these into two functions? Do you think you could have made the game work with just a single callback?

---

The game would also work with a single callback, which is what I did at first. For me activating a card is different from checking effects of a previous move. While debugging I found it confusing that the "middleware" gets called for different reasons / events.

Take the retryEffect as an example. It is already too complex for my liking as it is. If we removed the `onClick` callback, we would need another if statement to check if the card was just clicked. A single if statement may not be a big deal, but things can quickly add up.

I want to look at a piece of code and immediately understand in which situation it is being called. In my current project I often have to debug functions in parts of the app I am unfamiliar with. Many of these functions can be called by different types of users at different points in time for different reasons and they need to check multiple booleans to figure out what is going on. This makes it impossible to understand in which scenarios a function gets called by just reading the code. So when in doubt I prefer having more “types” of functions (or component variants) and even [duplicate (wet) code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=17KCHwOwgms).

In a way I would like my code to feel a little bit more like [XState](https://xstate.js.org/).
